[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium,
James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Hi.
Hi, everyone.
Hi.
Oh, hi.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And thank you at home
for joining us also
on "Spirit Talk," where I take
you one step closer to heaven.
On today's show, I
thought we'd do something
which many, many
people have asked
me to do from the emails I've
received and my Facebook page.
And they want to know about
mediumship, which is what I do.
I'm a medium.
I might look like a small,
but I'm actually a medium.
So I thought it would be
really, really-- not only fun,
but informative
to help you to be
able to reach the spirit
world on your own.
Because I don't think
that everybody necessarily
needs to go see
a medium, per se,
in order to interact
with the spirit world.
I think everybody
is a medium, per se.
I think that there
are different people
have different frequencies.
Or like a radio, you're tuned
into a different frequency.
And I think that
everybody at least
is able to receive an
impression from spirit.
They might not be clear as
far as what a message is,
or be able to get a
personality, but at least they
can definitely touch the spirit,
have the spirit world touch
them.
Yes?
So I thought today, as
we do this in the studio
and at home, that
we would help you
to learn the basics
of what I've learned
in my many years
of doing mediumship
and to work with
the spirit world.
OK?
Sound good?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yay!
So I thought I'd do several
different exercises,
and everyone at home
watching, also, you
can do these exercises.
You might need somebody
to do them with at home,
because we're
having people here,
so it would be helpful
to have someone
to do it with instead of no one.
So, first and foremost,
I want to tell you
that the spirit world
is not a place which
is up there in the
heavens and in the cloud.
The spirit world is
really another dimension,
and it's right next to us.
And the spirit world
touches us every day.
It's almost like
clouds or ether,
so they come right-- we
share a space with them.
So I don't want you to think
that the spirit world is
up far, far away, in heaven.
Heaven is around us.
And it's just a
different frequency.
It's just a different dimension.
So we are, first and
foremost, spirit beings
having a physical experience.
Having this human experience.
So start thinking of yourself
as a spirit, as a soul,
having a human experience.
And you just have to be.
You just have to be.
And when you work
with mediumship,
with psychic phenomena, with
healing work, the first space
you must get into, and to be
aware of, and really to live,
is the heart space.
Is right here.
This is where the soul resides,
right here in the heart.
And the more you can get in
that space of love, which
is what we are, we're
pure love beings, yes?
Then we're in.
We can hear, we can feel,
we can see the spirit world,
and we can have even a better
relationship with who we are.
We learn who we are.
We know who we are.
We have that relationship
with ourselves.
But it all starts
from the heart.
It starts from
that loving space.
I believe that every
single person is God.
Now, I don't get caught up in
a religious connotation of what
God is, but I would say God
is that omnipresent, nurturing
energy.
That oneness which
we all are a part of.
Or that oneness of energy.
So whatever works for you in
your world of what God means,
fine.
Let's just say love.
Yeah?
Pure love.
No judgment, pure love.
And I think when you
enter into a world
where you work with the
intuition and the sensitivity,
that you really have to
work from a space of love.
The word intuition
means into the soul.
It's a language of the soul,
and that's what happens.
We use our intuition
every single day.
What-- the choices
that we make in life,
we feel about something first,
and we use our intuition.
If the phone rings, and
you think of who it is,
or you get a flash of somebody,
it's-- and it's that person,
that's your intuition, your
soul language, speaking to you.
So if you can rely more on your
feelings, your gut, your gut,
instead of the head, right?
Because, remember, this really
gets in the way sometimes.
The brain,
rationalization, reasoning,
has nothing to do
with intuition.
It's two different
languages whatsoever.
And when you have the
spirit world around you,
and they want to communicate,
which they do all the time,
how often are we
closing them off?
How often are we just
trying to reason, justify,
and closing the door,
because we're not
listening with our hearts.
You will always be right if
you go with your first gut.
Your first gut instinct.
You'll always be
right with that.
It's really, really important
that you understand that.
So the spirit world always
wants to communicate with you.
They try to communicate with
you, whether through signs,
let's say, maybe they'll be able
to affect the magnetic field
of electricity, and
lights blink on and off.
Or maybe they'll come
through your dream state.
Or maybe you'll see somebody,
and you'll look at them,
and it looks-- reminds you of
your spirit friend or family
member.
Because the spirit is actually
next to you, projecting
a thought, an image
into your mind.
So when you look at someone,
you'll know-- you'll see them.
You'll see the spirit project
upon that person's face.
So they come through
any way they can.
Certain expressions
people use could
be from the spirit
influencing them.
Everyone is a medium from
one degree or another.
And what is a medium?
A medium is someone who is just
bringing through that energy.
It's just bringing
through the energy.
So, today I'd like to help
you to tune into the spirit
world that is always around you.
Yeah?
And receive messages.
And the messages are
very, very subtle.
They're very, very subtle.
And it's often like a feather
in the wind, riding the wind.
So the more subtle, the
more nuances, the easier
it'll be for the
spirit to come in.
So what we're going
to do is we're
going to do a little meditation.
And I'm going to
just have you relax.
And this meditation is
really designed to really
to become present in our own
space, in our own auric field.
And to really want-- I want
you to just open yourself up
to begin to feel.
So the first thing I'm going
to do in this meditation
is really a blending exercise,
where you open yourself
up to whoever comes through,
whether you know this person
or not.
It might be a relative of
yours, might be a friend,
might be a neighbor,
might be an animal.
We never know.
We really give ourselves
up to the spirit
and let them take over.
OK?
In the second part, I'll have
you just connect to yourself.
OK?
So just close your eyes and
become aware of your space.
And you're going to hear
music behind me as I speak.
And just-- I want you to
take this moment, this time,
and make it really count.
All of us together in one space.
Whether someone's watching this,
or you're here in the studio,
we must realize that we will
never, ever be together again
as one unit.
So we sit together now as
one unit, as one being,
as one breath.
As one breath, as one heartbeat.
As one being.
And just be aware of that
beautiful space, your heart.
Your heart space.
The space of the soul.
Where the soul resides,
so beautifully tucked
behind the heart.
You are a beautiful
light, and I just
want to reflect right now on
this beautiful light which
you are.
God makes no mistakes.
There are no mistakes.
The human makes mistakes when
they question their God self.
When they question that light.
But light always will
be, always has been.
And the more we give it power
through a thought of love,
the more that light shines.
So I'd like for us all to
imagine way, way above us,
in the spheres above us, there
are many beings, many guides,
many angels, many loved ones,
who are here just for you.
Are so interested
in your progress.
They are here to help guide
you, to make you more aware,
to make to open up to the truth.
We're going to just open
up our hearts and our minds
by using the breath.
And with the breath,
as we inhale,
we can imagine a
beautiful golden light,
with the awareness
that we are closer
to the world of the spirit.
And as we exhale
out of our mouths,
we're going to let go of the
old ways of thinking about who
we are, what we are, this
world that we walk upon.
And with each inhalation,
we step closer and closer
to spirit.
So together, let's bring this
beautiful light, this feeling
of love, this feeling of
spirit, and welcome them
in with just a thought.
With just a prayer.
And just inhale, and holding it,
two, three, four, and exhale.
Let go of the old.
Let it go.
Good.
And again, bringing in the
beautiful light and the spirit.
Inhale.
Dear spirit friends, come close.
Holding it, two, three,
four, and exhale.
Just realizing that a light
within you is shining,
is a great need of the spirit,
and they see your light.
Your light, you send out a light
to them, the beautiful spirit
world.
They see this beacon
of light which you are,
and they come close.
Just sending out
a thought to them.
Dear spirit friend,
come close to me now.
And with your thought,
just send out permission.
Send out this lovely thought
which says, spirit friends,
come so close to me
right now, as I sit here
to become an instrument
of the spirit.
And take a deep breath.
And exhale.
And welcome them,
whoever it might be,
to stand right behind you.
Just stand right
behind you to share
that space which is
right behind you.
And welcome them
with your light.
Give them one more chance to
feel the physical vibration,
to be part of this human
world one more time.
Invite them so close now,
whoever might show up,
whoever has the greatest
need to step into your space,
right behind you.
And just welcome
whoever it might be.
And let them now put their
hands upon your shoulders.
Dear spirit friends, we
know of the great need.
You need to come through.
We invite you now to come
through, to be a part of us,
to share this space and be one.
And let them come so close,
your feet become their feet.
Your legs are now their legs.
Your arms are their arms.
You see the eyes, they use
your eyes as their eyes.
Your ears as their ears.
Your voice as their voice.
Your body as their body.
And just step aside
and let them come in.
And just feel the
love that they have.
Feel the personality.
Just feel with your heart as
they adjust within your being.
It may be someone
you have not thought
about for quite a while.
Maybe somebody you're
not even aware of.
But let them come in
fully, integrate fully.
Whether it's a male or
female, whoever it might be,
let them experience
the human awareness,
the human levels, one more time.
And let it be.
And feel, let them
feel, let them use you,
let them be part of you.
Good.
As they blend with your
thoughts, blend with your body,
blend with your mind, very good.
Very good.
And now thank them,
send them appreciation
for stepping into this
space, and now ask them
telepathically and gently,
dear spirit friend,
you may back up now,
step outside the body.
Stand behind me
now at this time.
Put your hands back on my
shoulders as you step behind.
And thank you for being here.
Thank you for your presence.
Thank you for
infusing your energy
with my energy, so you may
experience the human world one
more time, and what
that body feels like.
And let them then step further
behind, and take a deep breath.
And exhale.
And slowly be aware of
your body, your own body.
Become mindful of your feet
on the floor, of your legs,
your backs on the chairs,
your shoulders and your arms.
Your neck and your heads.
And then another deep breath
going back into your own body,
inhale.
And exhale.
Feeling it, bringing
it back in the body.
Feeling your body, feeling once
again connected with yourself.
Very, very good.
Now one last time, fully
back in the body, and inhale.
And exhale.
And open your eyes.
Very good.
And put your arms
up and stretch.
Wiggle your fingers
and your toes.
Feeling back in the body.
Wave hi.
>>AUDIENCE: Hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi.
[CHUCKLES] Good.
Yes.
And applaud.
Very good.
So we're going to just-- I
just want to just ask you
what your experience was,
because everybody here
had a different
experience, of course.
And there were
some of you that I
saw with the auric field, where
the spirit was right there,
and it comes right--
partially to you.
I don't know if you felt
a male presence with you,
but there was definitely a m--
did you feel a male presence?
Felt a male right--
drop right in.
How many people here
felt the presence drop
in when they just allowed them?
Two, three, four.
Yeah, very good.
Sometimes, if it was hard for
you, you're in control mode.
Ah, control, I can't
give away control.
Right?
So it's like, oh, I've got
to-- I can't give away control.
When really, we have no control.
There is no control.
You cannot control other
people, you cannot control
your situations,
you can't control.
Right?
So for all you control freaks
out there, there is no control.
The only thing you
can control are
how you react to someone
else's experiences with you.
How they treat you, how
you deal with a scenario,
what someone says to you.
I often say that
karma, how people
treat you is their karma.
How you react is your karma.
So you have the choice of
how you're going to respond
and how you're going to react.
Yes?
OK.
So we're going to share some
of the experiences you had.
Who would like to share?
Raise your hand.
Would you like to share?
Yeah, it's very
emotional, I can see it.
So what did you feel?
>>AUDIENCE: I just felt
something behind me,
and then my stomach--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your stomach
started getting energetic.
>>AUDIENCE: Very,
very energetic.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did you
feel a male or a female?
>>AUDIENCE: A male.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A male.
I agree.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, a male.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did you allow
them to come into the body?
And what did you feel
once that manifested?
>>AUDIENCE: Just my heart
started beating faster.
And my stomach rolling.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So let me just tell
you what that is.
The spirit world,
the spirit people,
are on a very fast
vibration or frequency.
So in that dimension, it
vibrates very, very quick,
very, very fast.
Where they're at, right?
Because all around us, we
really have different types
of waves around us.
Microwaves, gamma rays,
all different types
of waves around us.
Radio waves, television waves.
We don't see, for
instance, television waves.
We don't see the picture of the
screen or the television show
in front of us,
but yet it's there.
But it's at a faster
vibration, a faster frequency.
It's beyond the human bandwidth.
So when spirit come
into ourselves,
this human condition,
they have to slow down
their frequency,
their vibration.
And many times, the human will
feel that as a quickening.
Very quick.
So that tells me
definitely you felt that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And it definitely
was a male feeling.
I agree with it.
Now, did it feel like
someone you knew,
or someone you did not know?
Who do you think it was?
>>AUDIENCE: My dad.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
was your father.
I agree with you,
it was your father.
Very, very much so.
And his condition before he
passed over affected the heart?
Was the heart affected before
he passed over as well?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
So sometimes, what you
picked up from your father,
were the last
conditions before he
passed into the other dimension,
and that's the physical stuff,
in his stomach was going
on, and his heart, yeah?
So that was also, not
only did you pick up
the vibration of the
spirit, but you picked up
the-- we call them the death
conditions, or conditions
of the body before they
passed into spirit.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
Good.
OK.
Very good.
And go ahead and give
her a round of applause.
Who would like to take
a shot at mediumship?
At giving spirit--
giving a message?
You would?
Come on up baby, great.
So I know just by your
energy that you're
somebody who's like a
lot of people out there.
We want love in our lives, and
sometimes we think in our head,
we've got to give, give,
give, in order to get love.
And that's not true.
That's really--
that's an illusion.
And that's really--
we'll get to a point
where we're so worn
out, and we want
people to love us so badly,
that we'll just really sacrifice
our own happiness.
So you can be more effective
and have more love in your life
if you'll be who you are.
And you're that
loving light, shining.
And just by being you,
you can teach people,
you can help people, and
you can reach more people.
OK?
Now, when I asked
if someone wants
to come up and learn mediumship,
or work with me as a medium,
you raised your hand right away.
You said yes.
So that tells me, inside of you,
there's a sense of compassion.
There's a sense of
wanting to help.
And that there's a desire.
So I'm going to help with that.
OK?
So I'm going to have
you to stand here.
And I'm going to have you
just take the microphone.
Well, I'll bring
the microphone, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
just stand here.
Right?
And I just want you
to close your eyes.
There you go.
And I'm right next to you.
I'm your guide.
So just think I'm your angel.
And I just want you to be
mindful now of the first things
you think of.
The first feelings
that you have.
I just want you to
invite the spirit in.
Whoever wants to come in.
You don't know who it is.
It's going to be for
somebody in this audience,
and you're not sure who it is.
So just give me the
first impressions,
and I'll work with you.
>>AUDIENCE: Just smiling.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Smiling.
Great.
>>AUDIENCE: And
lots of laughing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lots of laughing,
so it's a spirit that's joyful,
and laughter, very good.
>>AUDIENCE: A lot of nervous.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A lot
of nervous energy.
That's great.
It may be the first
time they've done this.
You're not sure.
Does it feel male or
female or a child?
Or what does it feel like?
>>AUDIENCE: Female.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
feels like a female.
Great.
So, great.
Then welcome them in,
invite them in, great.
They're next to you.
They're right with you.
So we have a female here
who's very joyful, very happy,
a little nervous.
Good.
What else can we get from that?
>>AUDIENCE: I think pain.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Pain.
OK.
And is there physical
pain or emotional pain?
>>AUDIENCE: I think
emotional pain.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Emotional pain.
>>AUDIENCE: That's not theirs.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
That they maybe passed
over, that there's
some emotional pain
that's not theirs.
OK.
Very good, very good.
And this person
that passed over,
this woman, does
it feel like when
she passed she
was later in life,
or was she earlier in
life, or was she in her--
>>AUDIENCE: Mid--
mid, middle of life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Middle.
Probably 50s, maybe
40s, 50s, 60s?
>>AUDIENCE: No, wait.
I guess, middle of life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's all right.
Just go with what--
>>AUDIENCE: Earlier in
life than maybe, like, me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Like your age.
So I don't know how old you are.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm 35. [GIGGLES]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm
not going to ask.
OK.
So 35, around that age, 35.
That's what it feels like.
So it feels like a soul that
was young when she passed over,
and that she left
with emotional pain,
or there's emotional
pain with somebody here.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
You're doing
really, really well.
And good.
And invite her in.
I think you've already
done the hardest work.
>>AUDIENCE: Come on in.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Come on in.
You've identified it's a female.
You identified the age, around
the age she passed over.
How happy and joyful it
is, but there's emotion.
What else?
>>AUDIENCE: Um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: So,
become an actress.
Let her take on you.
You're taking on that role.
You're taking that
role, that spirit.
That's the character,
you're the actress.
What does she feel like to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Excited.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's excited.
>>AUDIENCE: To--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Communicate.
>>AUDIENCE: Communicate.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: To be here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
To talk.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
OK.
And can she tell us anything
about maybe how she passed?
Did she pass inside,
or the outside,
or anything at all with that?
Or any of it mean something?
>>AUDIENCE: Um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't
think, just feel.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
just wants to say,
she wants to express herself.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let
her express herself.
Before her time.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, that's
what I'm trying to say.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
know, I'm psychic.
I know this.
OK.
All right?
Sorry.
So don't get caught up in it.
Don't worry.
There's no right or wrong.
You're just feeling.
That's fine.
So she really wants to come
through, and she's excited.
And she belongs to somebody here
in this audience, I'm assuming.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
So it's a woman, she's around
35, mid time of her life.
She passes over.
Did she pass over quickly,
or was it a long time?
>>AUDIENCE: I feel
like it was quick.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
was a quick passing.
>>AUDIENCE: And it was--
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
a quick passing.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: --it
was a very sad--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A
very sad situation.
>>AUDIENCE: --situation.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
passed away sad.
OK.
Now keep on going with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Um,
it was a big loss.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It was a big loss.
OK.
Was it an expected loss?
Was there a surprise
element about it?
>>AUDIENCE: It was a surprise.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There
was a surprise element.
But is-- OK.
Can we relate to that?
Anybody in the audience?
Yes.
I thought so.
So I want you to let
this woman in and repeat
the information she
has already given you.
So she's happy, and just keep
on repeating it out loud.
>>AUDIENCE: She's
really excited.
Really happy to be
able to be here.
To say that she's really
sorry to have left early.
And it was pretty
sad, I'm guessing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't guess.
Just feel it.
>>AUDIENCE: I feel
like I'm s-- OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
You got it.
It's like writing a letter.
It's like, I feel sad.
I left early.
I left an emotional--
>>AUDIENCE: I'm so good now.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So good now.
>>AUDIENCE: I feel
really, really good.
Happy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
Go with that.
Go with that good feeling.
>>AUDIENCE: Like,
don't be sad for me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't be sad.
>>AUDIENCE: Don't
be sad for yourself.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she
died on the inside?
What else?
Just let her speak--
>>AUDIENCE: It was
really, really fast.
Really fast.
>>AUDIENCE: It was.
It was really fast.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
was really fast.
>>AUDIENCE: Very, unexpected.
>>AUDIENCE: Very unexpected.
Yeah.
And um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she had
emotional stuff going on.
You realize that.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That was sad.
So she had emotional stuff.
Now I'm helping you.
You're helping me,
and I'm helping you,
because I'm inviting
her in my mind.
I'm sending out thoughts
to blend with us.
So I'm sending,
I'm saying, please
give us more information.
So you might get something.
I'll get something.
We'll do it together.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I'm getting emotional
upheaval with this woman.
I'm feeling that
she doesn't feel
like it was her life, that she
lived other people's lives.
And I don't know if
there was a marriage
or there was a
relationship problem.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
Because it's
definitely a situation
which was out of her control.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
couldn't handle it.
I know she tried running away
from that situation many times.
Correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You get that?
>>AUDIENCE: Was
she around my age?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was
she around her age?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Very much so.
Now, isn't it
interesting also, Molly,
that a spirit will come
close to you around your age?
Because they can use
your reference library,
what your life experience is.
So of course she'll pick
you to come through,
because you're
her age, you might
understand some of
the emotional things
she might have gone through.
You can pick up on that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
That's what I-- was she-- do you
mind if I ask you a question?
>>AUDIENCE: Go.
>>AUDIENCE: Was she like,
really physically well, or maybe
not so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think she might
have had an eating disorder.
Or there might have been
something with the--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
You understand that.
There was an eating disorder.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
I do feel that with her.
I feel there was a really bad
self image with this woman.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I feel that
there was some religion early
on her life.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
she had a fall into,
and that really
wasn't who she was.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Correct?
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
So I know there was some kind
of abuse, drug abuse or alcohol
abuse at the time.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: That's
what-- that's what, oh.
>>AUDIENCE: That's what-- how--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hello.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
>>AUDIENCE: Do you see
the light bulb? [LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
You feel it?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
got it, you feel it?
Yep, go, go.
Keep on even going
faster now with her.
Because you're in there, now you
can trust it and go with her.
Give her the energy, and say
to this girl-- keep on going,
honey.
Bring it in.
>>AUDIENCE: She's just
laughing and smiling.
Celebrating.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Like, having
a party all the time.
>>AUDIENCE: That's
how she was here.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
She's a party girl.
You know, she was
always a party girl.
>>AUDIENCE: She
was a party girl.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
She used to also--
>>AUDIENCE: She
doesn't want you she's
so excited to see you smile.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Lights up the world.
>>AUDIENCE: She's just so happy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You have
goosebumps all over.
Yeah.
Keep on going.
Look at the healing
you're bringing.
>>AUDIENCE: She's
like, don't stop.
Don't stop.
Just tell her she
looks beautiful.
Don't be sad.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Anymore. [LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was there
a child that was there?
She lost a baby.
Was something with a baby?
Was she pregnant, didn't
have the pregnancy?
The pregnancy was at
full term, or there
was a pr-- you
understand that, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh my God!
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just
call me James.
[LAUGHTER]
You got that, right?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
Because when I first
saw everything,
it was woman, child,
woman, child, woman, child.
>>AUDIENCE: She left
three kids behind too.
And it's not who I expected
to come through today,
but it's who came
through when I did our--
>>VAN PRAAGH: No, and
you don't expect it,
whoever comes through needs to.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh my gosh.
so?
>>VAN PRAAGH: So, and I
know if you check it out,
there'd be one
baby that did not--
>>AUDIENCE: I know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
know about that.
OK.
And that's definitely some--
>>AUDIENCE: That's
what I was thinking of.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
were picking up that.
OK.
So you can relate to
this sort of thing.
You know.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So feel the joy
your fr-- that the spirit has.
>>AUDIENCE: I know,
I can't stop like,
laughing on the inside
and I'm like about this--
>>AUDIENCE: That's her.
That's how she was.
>>AUDIENCE: --and I can't--
I'm right on the edge of like
bawling, but I'm so excited.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Let it go.
>>AUDIENCE: No, but I can't.
Because I need to laugh.
I need to--
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
have to honor her.
Yeah, laugh too.
>>AUDIENCE: That's-- yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: She's
so happy right now.
Like, and always happy.
There is no sadness, and
ugliness left in her life
at all.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
Yeah.
It was a lifetime about self.
Learning about self.
Trusting herself,
loving herself.
And she couldn't do it.
She couldn't live up to
the father's expectations,
her family's expectations.
Mostly the father.
Because there's definitely
some karmic connection
with her and her father.
>>AUDIENCE: She stands
up straight and tall.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's straight.
She's still now.
>>AUDIENCE: She's so-- like--
just rocking it. [LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's rocking it.
>>AUDIENCE: I own this. [LAUGHS]
>>AUDIENCE: That makes sense.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did she used
to have the loose leaf binder?
Used to write journals, or
do something with journals?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: I write journals.
>VAN PRAAGH: And you know
that, and drawing butterflies
and flowers on the side, the
doodling she would do also.
And I know that there was
a poem read at her service.
I know there were two
services, she's telling me.
You understand that.
And I know that-- two
services, distinctly different.
One more family,
one more friends.
More hanging out.
She likes to hang out.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
a hanger outer.
She just likes nature,
she likes woods.
She likes that sort of thing.
I like the skies, I like the
sunsets, they're so big to me.
I like hot air ballooning.
And if you want to close
with her, what final messages
or salutations would she say?
And first of all,
let's establish,
you're-- I don't know if you're
a family member or sister,
or just a close friend of hers.
>>AUDIENCE: Just a friend.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But you feel
like a sister feeling.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I feel like-- do
you feel like sister feeling?
Like a sister.
In some ways, you're closer to
her than her family would be.
You know that.
And was there someone
getting a tattoo about her?
You thought about, or someone
thought about getting a tattoo?
>>AUDIENCE: It probably
was in regard to me
that she-- they were thinking
of doing when she passed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Something to do with a
tattoo design or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Because
I had breast cancer.
So they were talking about
getting the pink ribbon.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And the design tattoo thing.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>AUDIENCE: Whoa.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was that great?
So thank her very much
for coming through.
>>AUDIENCE: Um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
thank-- what else do you
want to say with
this lovely lady?
>>AUDIENCE: I can't
thank you enough.
I can't thank you enough.
I can't-- please
be happy always,
and share it with as
many people as you can,
that she was so amazing.
>>AUDIENCE: I've really been
going through a depression
this year.
I lost two best friends in
the last year to suicide, so.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm so sorry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
she comes in, maybe
to speak for the
other friends as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know someone did pass
with cancer, by the way.
There's somebody that's
passed with cancer.
You know that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that
doesn't have to be you.
So stop making it you.
>>AUDIENCE: And it's not me.
I know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
Not at all.
OK.
So thank you very much.
And thank your friend.
>>AUDIENCE: Can
I give you a hug?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Give her a hug.
>>AUDIENCE: That was amazing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Give
me a hug, too.
Hello.
I'm not going to miss out.
All right.
Very good job, sweetheart.
Give her a round of applause.
Watch your step.
Very good.
Do you want to come up?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yep.
We're going to just
pass the baton.
OK.
Leave the-- I'm going to
switch this and give this
to you to hold onto
if you don't mind.
And now, your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Liana.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Liana.
So that's an honor to work
with spirit like that.
It's an honor that she
came through like that.
It's also, I'm going to
tell you that this was all
set up before anyone comes here.
I think the spirit
world work things out.
And I think that they're
really the puppet masters
and we're just the puppets.
And I think that that was
planned probably for months.
Who knows.
You know.
And you've been asking
her to come through,
and she wanted to.
One more thing, I'm going
to ask you about turtles.
And I don't know why I
want to say turtles--
>>AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: But I'm
saying turtles to you,
because she's talking
about turtles.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
that makes sense?
>>AUDIENCE: I went to Hawaii
a few months ago for the first
time, and I had this amazing
experience with a sea turtle--
>>VAN PRAAGH: With a turtle.
>>AUDIENCE: --for an hour.
And it was just he and I. It
was-- yeah, it was amazing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, it was from
her and your other friends,
by the way.
And I know you did a ceremony
over there in Hawaii.
And I want to thank you on
behalf of them for the ceremony
that you did on their behalf.
And they watched
every bit of it.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yay.
And you must have also
had either shells or rocks
that you wanted to
bring back from there.
Understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You do.
OK.
So they're just
talking about that.
Great.
Good girl.
OK.
Great.
All right.
So we're going to
just close our eyes,
and I just want you to close
your-- put your arms down.
You're right here with me now.
Take a deep breath.
Get back into your heart space.
Great.
Fabulous.
And now, so you've been
opened up beautifully
by these beings
that are around you.
And I just want you
feel whoever you feel.
A male or a female.
What do you feel?
With your heart, because you're
such an emotional person.
>>AUDIENCE: Definitely
a male coming through.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A
male coming through.
So a male coming through.
OK.
And what does that
male feel like?
>>AUDIENCE: He feels older.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He feels
like an older male.
And older meaning what?
60s, 70s?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
80s.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 80s.
So an older male,
80s, very good.
What does he feel like?
>>AUDIENCE: He feels kind of
stocky, but not very tall.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Stocky
but not very tall.
OK.
Good.
>>AUDIENCE: Broad shouldered.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Broad shouldered.
Great.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What's
his personality like?
>>AUDIENCE: He comes
across as kind of harsh,
but he's really not.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So he's
harsh, but inside he's soft.
With the exterior of being hard.
Yeah.
OK.
And give him a voice now.
You want to give
this man a voice.
>>AUDIENCE: His
voice is very gruff.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very gruff.
Very gruff.
OK.
Mm-hm.
>>AUDIENCE: Long upper
body, short legs.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Long
upper body, short legs.
Very good.
And did he pass away
inside or outside?
>>AUDIENCE: Inside.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Inside.
And was he on a bed,
or was he sitting down?
Or--
>>AUDIENCE: I think
this man was in a bed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He was in a bed.
OK.
So, great.
So just kind of repeat
what you get to yourself.
I have a man here, and
just repeat it, honey.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
I have a man here
who is in a bed.
And he's definitely older.
In his 80s.
Probably mid 80s even.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mid 80s.
Very good.
He feels very gruff.
>>AUDIENCE: Very gruff.
Mm-hm.
Even at the end, but wasn't--
he probably came across as very
ungrateful, but
he's very grateful.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very grateful.
OK.
And he obviously belongs to
somebody here in this audience.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And do you get a feel where
this man wants to go toward?
That side of the room
or that side of the--
>>AUDIENCE: I think
I'm over here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You want
to go over this side.
Over this side of the room.
OK, good.
So we're drawn to the energy
to the left side of the room.
Great.
If you want to turn facing
that side of the room.
Great.
And do you feel anything around
here, where you want to go to.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm here somewhere.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're right here.
So the information that was said
so far, does either one of you
understand that?
No.
Anybody this side
understand that?
She understands that.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: I can see his face.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
can see his face.
Good.
Describe it.
Perfect.
>>AUDIENCE: To me, his
face is more square.
I see age spots along here.
Gray hair but olive tone skin.
>>AUDIENCE: I think
that's our grandfather.
>>AUDIENCE: It could be.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's grandpa.
OK.
You related?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Are you sisters?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So would you mind giving the
microphone to your sister,
there?
OK.
So what's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Cindy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Cindy.
So tell us which-- stand up.
Great.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Tell
us what you were--
>>AUDIENCE: So, for some reason,
when you were describing him,
I was thinking, well, why
would grandpa come through?
But um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's up to him.
>>AUDIENCE: He was older,
and he-- he was-- he
did die in a hospital bed.
And I was scared of him.
And I talk to him a lot
now, because I really
want-- I would love to
have our family ranch back.
So I always say,
grandpa, can you
make it possible for me to
get part of our ranch back.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So let's stay with that.
And just see if that
makes sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: That does
make sense to me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
does make sense?
What else does he want to say?
Now that we've located
where it belongs.
>>AUDIENCE: So the woman
is tied to him, too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's a
woman tied to him too.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
It's our mother.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So your
mother's coming in with him.
This would be her father?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
they're together.
>>AUDIENCE: She loved her daddy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't tell us.
Let them tell you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
No, I already know
that. [LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let--
>>AUDIENCE: I am
not the medium, so--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
you are a medium.
Hello.
So let's-- so we have the
grandfather, man to the side.
We recognize who he is.
Let's bring the
woman through now.
And let's have the
characteristics for her.
Let's bring through
her personality,
or traits of her personality.
>>AUDIENCE: She's
opposite of him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
the opposite of him.
Yes.
She says yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Very happy go lucky.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
never really approved
of a lot of the stuff he did.
You realize that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
You understand that?
And I know that you
wanted to do something
with-- I know her name
is important to you.
OK?
And initial M. I don't
know why, but I see an M,
like a Mary or an M name.
>>AUDIENCE: Our
grandmother is May.
And her twin is Mary.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
>>AUDIENCE: And our-- her--
our maiden name is Martinez,
so, there's lots of M's.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
There's the M's, like
[MAKING EXPLOSION SOUND] M,
[MAKING EXPLOSION SOUND] good.
>>AUDIENCE: Lotta M's.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So bring
some more of that mother.
We know it's a mother.
And what does that
mother feel like?
Because the love of a
mother with a child,
it's an incredible energy.
Right?
So what is she feeling like?
She's gotta be dancing
with joy right now.
>>AUDIENCE: She
seems very happy.
But it seems like the
people here aren't.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's fighting
among the family members.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
Do you understand that, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: I don't.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But you do.
The other sister does.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't feel
like it's about the ranch,
or whatever you
said a while ago.
I feel like it's something else.
Personal items or something?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh.
>>AUDIENCE: Well,
there's not fighting,
but we have a lot of her
things we have to go through,
and we just haven't
been willing to do it.
>>AUDIENCE: The important
thing is that she is OK.
There wasn't suffering.
I don't know why she
keeps saying that.
>>AUDIENCE: That's good to know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was there going to
be a procedure or an operation
or something that didn't
happen or it was changed?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's what it is.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: They
did the operation,
but there was nothing
they could do.
So they couldn't close
her up, and she died.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, there's
the conflict at the death.
I knew there was something
about the death that was weird.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
That was weird.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It wasn't
fully finished or something.
>>AUDIENCE: And I was mad.
Because I thought, well
why did they go in.
I'm sorry.
When you said
conflict, I thought
you meant between Genevieve
and I. Like, we were fighting.
But there was none of that.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
Not between siblings
or anything.
No.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
And I-- yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let
her tell you more.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't
know what a bird means.
There's a bird.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A bird.
Do you understand
about the bird?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, she does.
Hello.
>>AUDIENCE: It's a
crow in my backyard.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
I don't know the
full story, but yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She influenced you
with the bird, with the crow.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: She comes to me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In the
sign of the bird.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I believe it's my
sister who's passed.
But my mom and I talked
to it many times.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, let's not
make it who it-- you know,
we get the mother right now, so.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
So it must be my mother.
But yes, I understand the bird.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It could be both
of them coming through at once.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, there
are more than one bird.
>>AUDIENCE: I just
know I'm supposed
to talk about the bird.
>>AUDIENCE: The bird.
OK.
That's good to know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And anything
you want to finish up with?
>>AUDIENCE: I think
the property's
going somewhere else.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The property's
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right.
Great.
Good job.
Very good.
Go give them a hug.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to come
over here to your mom, OK?
Your mom, by the way, she
had something about her eyes.
And she's able to
see clearly now.
So I need to let
you know about that.
I'm also handing you
a bouquet of roses.
And-- I'm sorry.
Roses and carnations.
And carnations.
It's a big deal, flowers
are a very big deal.
OK?
I also need to ask you, in
your car, when you're driving,
she's standing right-- or
sitting right next to you.
And I don't know if
you have something
on the mirror that's of hers?
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: It's a butterfly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's a butterfly.
And don't you
associate that, that's
hanging on that rear view
mirror, with your mother,
or something about
the butterfly?
>>AUDIENCE: A butterfly
has been my symbol
since my mother passed away.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
So there you go.
So I want to acknowledge
that that butterfly that's
hanging there from that
mirror is your mother.
She's right there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I also want to
acknowledge with this lady--
and is there another
Marie in the family?
Or Mary, or Maria.
>>AUDIENCE: All of us.
There's three girls.
We all are named Maria.
Different middle name.
My father's choice.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
father's choice.
I knew there was
more than one Maria.
Isn't that weird.
And I just know that
this-- she stopped
to talk about the flowers
and having a lot of flowers.
Now, wasn't there, with
her end of her life,
wasn't there confusion?
And was there-- was
there a wake, please?
>>AUDIENCE: There was a--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Or was there talk
about having a wake or not,
or what?
>>AUDIENCE: We were confused,
because we weren't-- she was
in California.
She wanted to be buried with
my father, who lived in-- well,
was buried in Texas.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, I knew
there was going to be Texas.
>>AUDIENCE: And it was an
argument between the family.
Either cremation and send her
there, or send her body there.
So it was a really--
we were arguing a lot.
And so--
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I knew that.
And she's telling me about that.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: We sent
her body there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
She knows about that.
There was want-- someone
wanted to have a wake,
and there was arguments among--
but she knows about that.
And it doesn't really
matter anymore.
It doesn't really
I know that in the
generations of the family
there's a problem in the family
with-- go on-- with blood.
Blood problem in the family.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
Circulation.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she
said the blood problems.
And I know there was a
problem with the grandmother
or something, where
she couldn't walk,
or she had trouble getting up.
>>AUDIENCE: Her mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her mother, right?
Your grandmother.
So there would be
trouble with walking,
because she's telling
me that very much.
She's with her mother
there, and she's
with other sisters over there.
Gotta tell you that as well.
Also, in the family,
had something
to do with the brain, or
on aneurysm, or something
with the head.
>>AUDIENCE: When was it?
Two days ago, my son
was in a hospital.
They were checking
him for an aneurysm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh.
OK.
That's what it means.
Well, that's-- I just
got that feeling.
I don't feel he's-- I don't
think you have anything
to worry about there.
Obviously, I'm
getting told that.
Don't worry about that.
I want to talk about who
just bought the new shoes.
And who bought a brand
new pair of shoes.
>>AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS] Me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yesterday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
mom was influencing you
with getting that pair of shoes.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because she loved
her shoes, too,
and she's dancing, by the way.
So she's dancing,
having a good time.
And you know that
she said party.
She likes to party.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I've
got to tell you that.
I also must tell you that she
looks to the stars with you.
When you're looking at the
stars and you're talking to her.
And I gotta tell you that I
know mom and your dad both,
but I feel connection
with your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: With you.
>>AUDIENCE: She
was my best friend.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
It's like, I don't feel as
tight with the father per se.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I feel
more with the mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I don't
know if the father remarried
or there's a whole
problem with that.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
My father died 20 years ago.
My mom died three years ago.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I just feel
the father-- I'm
not as connected with the
father as I am with your mom.
OK?
I want to say that she's
calling you a sweetheart.
And the word she's
using is sweetheart.
And I know that there's
either a bracelet,
or there's something I'm
being shown in my mind
here with two hearts
coming together as one.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I bought three necklaces when
she passed, and each of us
have one.
Her daughters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's
a heart, right?
There's a heart?
>>AUDIENCE: Two hearts,
coming together.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
Because I know that.
And she-- I know
that to be true.
>>AUDIENCE: Cuz
I bought it for--
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
really, really important
that you hear that, that
you acknowledge that.
I've got to tell you that
there's no pain with this lady.
She's very happy where she's at.
And she's saying-- now
this is very interesting.
She's using the reference,
I'm in my father's kingdom.
So that tells me this lady might
have been a religious lady.
>>AUDIENCE: Very.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And with
a Bible, because she's
holding on to a Bible now.
>>AUDIENCE: She died
with a rosary on her bed.
So.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Well, let me just tell
you what I'm getting.
I know religious, it's a
symbolic for religious with me.
I'm in my father's kingdom.
And she said, I'm
with all the angels.
Hold on, got you.
She's very pushy.
Very enthusiastic
and very pushy.
But that's OK, because this'll
help somebody who's watching,
and people here.
That angels are significant.
You understand about the
angels being significant?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
your mother loved angels.
I know that you love
angels, for your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: I have lots
of figurines of angels.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
I know you have shelves
of them, actually.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know if
I'm sitting in your couch,
I can look and see angels.
And I know your mother's
photograph, or picture,
is lying right
there, and there's
angel statues or
angels around it.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's very happy.
You have her earring, she said.
You have her earrings.
More than one, of course.
But I know the name Rose
is also significant.
So I know Rose is significant.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: My father
grew red roses for her.
He would pick one
every day for her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I'm seeing the rose, and
I know that's very significant.
So in your life, when you
smell, you smell the roses,
know that your mom is there.
And your father's there, too.
Your father looks after you
like you wouldn't believe.
And there's one more thing.
I don't know if you have
a child, or two children,
but-- OK.
I want to write
something to them.
So would you go home
maybe not today,
[SIGH] I'm getting very
emotional here as your mom
comes in.
She's tough, too, you
know, your mother.
She can be really tough
if she wants to be.
And she said, would you please
give the babies, your kids,
a message from me?
I'm going to come through
your hands in writing.
And that's how she's going
to use the mediumship.
So mediumship comes
in different ways,
and inspirational
writing is another way
that spirit can influence you.
So please, when you feel
right, go home, have a pad,
connect with your mother, your
father, and just be open to it
and just let your
hand-- let them
take your hand over
and glide that pen.
And let her write-- it's
either a prayer, a poem,
a message to your kids.
She said she wants to do that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I give
you all my love, she said.
My time is up.
OK.
So I'll leave with that.
OK?
Can I hug you?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Well, I want to thank you all
very, very much for being here,
and everyone watching as well.
And I just want you to be
reassured from today's show
that, indeed, everybody's
mediumistic in their own way.
But in order to
perfect this skill,
you have to learn to
listen to the silence
and be empowered with who you
are as a loving, gentle spirit.
Until we meet again, my love,
my light I send to all of you
and all of you.
Thank you all very much.
God bless.
Bye-bye.